# Cue
Cues are serialized PixelMaestro commands. Using Cues, you can save a Maestro's configuration to a file, send it to another device, or [schedule actions](show.md) to run at a later time.

**Warning:** Cues are RAM-hungry. You may run into issues on low-memory devices such as an Arduino Uno.

## Contents
1. [Enabling Cues](#enabling-cues)
	1. [Setting the Buffer Size](#setting-the-buffer-size)
	1. [Enabling CueHandlers](#enabling-cuehandlers)
2. [Creating Cues](#creating-cues)
3. [Running Cues](#running-cues)
4. [Header Parameters](#header-parameters)
5. [Payload Parameters](#payload-parameters)

## Enabling Cues
All Cues pass through a `CueController`. CueControllers are responsible for assembling outgoing Cues and processing incoming Cues. Create a new CueController by calling `Maestro::set_cue_controller()`. Calling [`Maesto::set_show()`](show.md) also creates a new CueController.

```c++
#include "core/maestro.h"
#include "cue/cuecontroller.h"
...
CueController* controller = maestro.set_cue_controller();
```

### Setting the Buffer Size
While Cues are being processed, they are loaded into a temporary buffer. This buffer must be large enough to hold an entire Cue or the Cue will not be processed. While most Cues are relatively small (~20-30 bytes), some Cues (especially Canvas and Show Cues) can be several kilobytes. Since embedded devices often have limited memory, the CueController dynamically allocates the buffer on initialization. This way, you can use a small buffer on smaller devices and larger buffers on larger devices (up to a maximum 65,536).

Set the buffer size when calling `maestro.set_cue_controller()`. Leaving this empty creates a buffer 256 bytes long.

```c++
uint16_t buffer_size = 65536;
CueController* controller = maestro.set_cue_controller(buffer_size);
```

### Enabling CueHandlers
Cues are generated by `CueHandlers`, which map Cues to and from PixelMaestro commands. Each of the core PixelMaestro classes has an associated CueHandler.

To use a CueHandler, enable it using `CueController::enable_handler(CueController::Handler)`. This returns a pointer to the new CueHandler. Enabling a CueHandler lets you generate and interpret Cues using that CueHandler.

```c++
SectionCueHandler* handler = static_cast<SectionCueHandler*>(controller->enable_handler(CueController::Handler::SectionHandler));
```

## Creating Cues
You can create a Cue by calling one of the methods in an enabled CueHandler. For example, to create a Cue that changes a Section's dimensions, enable the `SectionCueHandler` and call `handler.set_dimensions(section, layer, x, y)`, where `section` and `layer` are the indices of the Section and Layer you want to modify (leave the Layer index as 0 if you want to modify the base Section). This generates a Cue and stores it in the CueController's buffer, which you can access using `CueController::get_cue()`.

**Note:** Most CueHandler methods require you to pass in the index of the Section and Layer you want to modify. The Layer index indicates the depth of the Layer from the base Section (index 0 points to the base Section itself).

The following example creates a Canvas on a Layer, then draws a circle onto the Canvas:
```c++
#include "cue/cuecontroller.h"
#include "cue/canvascuehandler.h"
#include "cue/sectioncuehandler.h"

...
// The index of the Section (in `Maestro::sections_`).
int section_index = 0;

// How far down the Layer is.
// For example, an index of 1 affects the base Section's Layer, while an index of 2 affects the Layer's Layer.
int layer_index = 1;

SectionCueHandler* section_handler = static_cast<SectionCueHandler*>(controller->enable_handler(CueController::Handler::SectionHandler));
section_handler->add_canvas(section_index, layer_index, CanvasType::ColorCanvas);
controller->run();

CanvasCueHandler* canvas_handler = static_cast<CanvasCueHandler*>(controller->enable_handler(CueController::Handler::CanvasHandler));
canvas_handler->draw_circle(section_index, layer_index, Colors::GREEN, 5, 5, 2, true);
controller->run();
```

## Running Cues
After calling a CueHandler method, you can immediately run the Cue using `CueController::run()`. You can also run a Cue using `CueController::run(unsigned char* cue)` and passing the Cue as the parameter. This lets you pass in Cues from external sources such as files. You can also run multiple Cues sequentially using `CueController::run(unsigned char* cues, unsigned char num_cues)`.

For cases where you need to read in parts of a Cue at a time (e.g. using `Serial.read()` on an Arduino), use `CueController::read(byte)`. This reads each byte into the CueController's buffer until the Cue has loaded completely, then automatically executes the Cue. The buffer then resets and repeats the process for the next incoming Cue.

```c++
// Setup
Serial.begin(9600);

// Loop
if (Serial.available()) {
	controller.read(Serial.read());
}
```

**The following sections are for reference/curiosity only.**

## Header Parameters
Cues are byte arrays approximately 20 elements long. Each Cue starts with a header, which contains the following parts:

1. **ID**: a simple string used to identify the start of a Cue.
2. **Size**: the size of the command (aka the _payload_).
3. **Checksum**: a generated value confirming the integrity of the Cue. This is done by summing up the entire Cue, dividing by 256, and taking the remainder.

The ID and checksum are used as validation when loading Cues from external sources, whereas Cues generated from within the CueController bypass this step altogether.

After the Checksum is the _payload_, which contains the actual command.

## Payload Parameters
Payloads vary in length depending on the command (stored in the _size_ component of the header), but each payload contains almost all of these parameters:

1. **Handler**: the CueHandler that generated this Cue. This lets the CueController delegate incoming Cues to the appropriate CueHandler.
2. **Action**: the CueHandler-specific method that created this Cue. CueHandlers use this to determine which PixelMaestro command to run using this Cue.
3. **Type**: identifies one of several possible options, e.g. a Canvas type or Animation type. Only certain CueHandlers use this parameter.
4. **Section**: the index of the Section that this Cue modifies.
4. **Layer**: the index of the Layer that this Cue modifies in relation to the Section (e.g. a value of *2* affects the Section's Layer's Layer).
5. **Options**: A variable-length set of options specific to each Action. Most Options are less than 10 bytes long, but some (e.g. setting color arrays or copying Canvas frames) can easily reach 1KB+.

[Home](README.md)
